Let's pretend we wanted to track
the mouse position on this div.
Well, that's pretty easy to do.
We basically use a convention of
using camel case on DOM events, so
on, and then the DOM events.
So you can do on mouse move for Zeon.
It's funny we actually support both.
But let's do this one,
on mouse move equals handleMouseMove.
And handleMouseMove in this case is, we're
just sending a signal that updates some x
and y coordinates that we display in here.
And the one we go in here,
unsurprisingly, it works.
So important thing to know
is that our event handlers,
they can be in line as well.
They pass the DOM event, and
then you can read the event and
set the appropriate data.
We support a style tag, and
it's a little bit different than you
might have seen in some frameworks.
It does support objects, but
we actually rely on
standard DOM properties.
And this means that we don't camel case.
And instead,
what we ended up doing is we put.
I've got a couple extra
brackets somewhere.
There we go, some fun animation.
We actually use stuff like
get dash case for CSS.
And this might seem like an interesting
choice, and it also means pixels and
whatnot.
But it gives us a lot of control and
flexibility here because
the compiler will actually
output individual style
update commands for DOM,
essentially per one of these.
So if say, one of them updates and
then the other ones don't, it'll actually
just update the specific CSS property
independently of the other ones.
And we can also support
CSS variables this way,
we can add-- my-variable.
And it's also lines with stuff
like serverside rendering.
It helps us with performance because,
again, when you're serializing the stuff
into the DOM, we don't wanna do all
these camel case transformation.
So this is performance optimization.
It gives you more flexibility control, and
it makes a difference on both
the client and the server.
But yeah, in this example,
we're literally just using set
interval to blow up some text.
Similarly dealing with classes,
you can just use class in solid,
not class name or anything.
We support standard HTML properties.
But we also have an interesting helper,
which lets us kind of shortcut some
of this stuff to do an object form.
So for example,
instead of doing this through selected or
this, which is pretty common place,
we can go ClassList,
which uses the underlying
ClassList property on the element,
and let's us do something like selected
when essentially current equals foo.
And again, this is just convenient
when you wanna apply multiple styles.
It's not a huge game changer here,
sorry, it's an object.
But it lets us get around
certain amount of overhead.
One thing that's becoming
dreadfully clear to me is that
the playground is much
better than the tutorials,
[LAUGH] because the tutorials seem to be
having a little bit of an issue here.
Okay, And let me see here.
Cuz, yeah, this is a selector
thing where basically you're using
mutual exclusive selectors in this thing.
And essentially, I'm just going to
pop this down into all of these.
But yeah, it's just a convenience,
it's not groundshaking.
But it's a cool little feature to have,
ClassList.
Yeah, it's baz and bar, yeah, baz and bar.
There we go.
Bar and baz.
[LAUGH] There you go.
[LAUGH] All right, still working,
okay, good, good, good.
And one of the cool side
effects of it is that
we can also use it for
dynamic expressions.
There's actually a little
thing here on the side, but
we can also choose what class it is.
We can use object notation for
JavaScript and put a signal maybe in here.
So you can actually change what
the keys are, dynamically as well.
So it's a nice little tool because you
can kind of combine these objects and
kind of describe more
complicated logic with it.
Refs give you a reference
to a native element.
And in solid you can do this in two ways.
The easiest way and more straightforward
way is to just create a variable,
and it's just a normal variable,
this let canvas.
And then all we do is on our element.
We go ref canvas here.
And now you'll see our nice effect cuz
we have reference to our Canvas and
now one of the solid logos here
is getting animated with color.
But we also have a different
way of using refs, right?
This works really well when you
wanna wait and use it in a mount.
So once it's been connected to the DOM,
see we're using our Canvas directly here.
We can also just create a signal,
which also works quite well.
Because sometimes, or
really any function for
that matter, we can use callback refs.
And this gives us a little bit more
control about how we assign the ref,
which can be useful.
So in this case,
I'm gonna change this Canvas to,
now it's gonna be a function, and
then down here we can go set Canvas.
For an example like this,
it's effectively the same thing.
Let's see Canvas, and probably referencing
Canvases function in multiple places.
Here I am.
Let's just update them all.
And one more time.
Import createSignal.
And we have the same effect again.
So you have a couple of choices here,
right?
You can always assign it
directly to the element.
But if you wanna keep your JSX together,
you can just assign to a variable or
use a signal if you wanna do
some more dynamic stuff with it.
Right, and similarly, we can actually
forward our refs through components.
And we don't actually need much of
a special syntax for that, right?
Now, similar example where we
have all this logic, and for
some reason, I've broken the Canvas
out into a different component.
And in here, we have our Canvas element.
All we need to do is Go ref, props.ref.
And it's basically a special property.
We know with props.ref, we can basically,
if the ref is provided by
the parent like it is here,
which is just this Canvas variable again,
we can forward it through.
And let's update this URL.
Looks like this site is down.
And there we go.
We see our same Canvas effects.
So even through components,
we can forward refs simply by
using the props.ref property.